## Publishing a project

Publishing a project to ApxrIo consists of registering a ApxrIo user, adding metadata to the project's `mix.exs` file, and finally submitting the project with a `mix` task.

### Registering a ApxrIo user

When registering a user, you will be prompted for a username, your email and a password. The email is used to confirm your identity during signup, as well as to contact you in case there is an issue with one of your projects. The email will never be shared with a third party.

```nohighlight
$ mix apxr_io.user register
Username: johndoe
Email: john.doe@example.com
Password:
Password (confirm):
Registering...
Generating API key...
You are required to confirm your email to access your account, a confirmation email has been sent to john.doe@example.com
```

Once this step has been completed, check your email inbox for the confirmation email. Once you have followed the enclosed link, your account will be ready to use.

### Naming your project

Before publishing, you will have to choose the name of your project. Remember that projects published to ApxrIo are public and can be accessed by anyone in the community. It is also the responsibility of the community to pick and encourage good project names. Here are some tips:

  * Avoid using offensive or harassing project names, nicknames, or other identifiers that might detract from a friendly, safe, and welcoming environment for all.
  * If you are providing functionality on top of an existing project, consider using that project name as a prefix. For example, if you want to add authentication to [Plug](https://github.com/elixir-lang/plug), consider calling your project `plug_auth` (or `plug_somename`) instead of `auth` (or `somename`).
  * Avoid namespace conflicts with existing projects. Plug owns the `Plug` namespace, if you have an authentication project for Plug use the namespace `PlugAuth` instead of `Plug.Auth`.

With a name in hand, it is time to add the proper metadata to your `mix.exs` file.

### Adding metadata to `mix.exs`

The project is configured in the `project` function in the project's `mix.exs` file. [See below](#example-mix-exs-file) for an example file.

First, make sure that the `:version` property is correct. All ApxrIo projects are required to follow [semantic versioning](http://semver.org/).

Fill in the `:description` property. It should be a sentence, or a few sentences, describing the project.

Under the `:project` property are some additional configuration options:

<dl class="dl-horizontal">
  <dt><code>:name</code></dt>
  <dd>The name of the project in case you want to publish the project with a different name than the application name. By default this is set to the same as the name of your OTP application (having the same value as `project.app`), written in snake_case (lowercase with underscores as word separator).</dd>
  <dt><code>:team</code></dt>
  <dd>The team the project belongs to. The project will be published to the team repository, defaults to the global <code>"apxr_io"</code> repository.</dd>
  <dt><code>:licenses</code></dt>
  <dd>A list of licenses the project is licensed under. This attribute is required.</dd>
  <dt><code>:links</code></dt>
  <dd>A map where the key is a link name and the value is the link URL. Optional but highly recommended.</dd>
  <dt><code>:files</code></dt>
  <dd>A list of files and directories to include in the project. Defaults to standard project directories, so you usually don't need to set this property.</dd>
  <dt><code>:build_tool</code></dt>
  <dd>List of build tools that can build the project. It's very rare that you need to set this, as ApxrIo tries to automatically detect the build tools based on the files in the project. If a <code>rebar</code> or <code>rebar.config</code> file is present ApxrIo will mark it as able to build with rebar. This detection can be overridden by setting this field.</dd>
</dl>

To improve the documentation generated by ExDoc, the following fields can also be supplied as part of the `project` function:

<dl class="dl-horizontal">
  <dt><code>:source_url</code></dt>
  <dd>An URL to the location where your source code is publicly available. This will be used to link directly to the code of the different modules functions from within the documentation.</dd>
  <dt><code>:homepage_url</code></dt>
  <dd>An URL to the homepage of your application. This will be used to link back to your homepage from within the generated documentation.</dd>
</dl>

Consult the [ExDoc documentation](https://github.com/elixir-lang/ex_doc#using-exdoc-with-mix) for more information on improving the generated documentation.

#### Dependencies

A dependency defined with no SCM (`:git` or `:path`) will be automatically treated as a ApxrIo dependency. See the [Usage guide](/docs/usage) for more details.

Only ApxrIo projects may be used as dependencies of the project. It is not possible to upload projects with Git dependencies. Additionally, only production dependencies will be included, just like how Mix will only fetch production dependencies when fetching the dependencies of your dependencies. Dependencies will be treated as production dependencies when they are defined with no `:only` property or with `only: :prod`.

<a id="example-mix-exs-file"></a>

#### Documentation

Documentation is automatically published to [hexdocs.pm](https://hexdocs.pm) when you publish your project. If you only want to publish the project itself you can run `mix apxr_io.publish project`, similarly if you want to (re)publish the documentation of an existing project version you can run `mix apxr_io.publish docs`.

Before publishing documentation, ApxrIo will build the documentation by running the `mix docs` task to make sure it is up to date. The main documentation tool for Elixir, `ex_doc` provides this task so if you add it as a dependency you don't have to do anything else to get automatic documentation builds when you publish your project. Check out the [documentation for ex_doc](https://hexdocs.pm/ex_doc/readme.html) for information on how to configure your docs, we recommend building your docs locally with `mix docs` before publishing them to ApxrIo. Finally also take a look at the [Elixir guide for writing documentation](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/writing-documentation.html) for suggestions and best practices.

If want to use another documentation tool or do post-processing on the build from ex_doc you can alias the `docs` task, check the [task alias docs](https://hexdocs.pm/mix/Mix.html#module-aliases) for more information. Built documentation should be put in the `doc/` directory with at least an `index.html` file.

#### Example mix.exs file

```elixir
defmodule Postgrex.MixProject do
  use Mix.Project

  def project() do
    [
      app: :postgrex,
      version: "0.1.0",
      elixir: "~> 1.0",
      build_embedded: Mix.env == :prod,
      start_permanent: Mix.env == :prod,
      description: description(),
      project: project(),
      deps: deps(),
      name: "Postgrex",
      source_url: "https://github.com/elixir-ecto/postgrex"
    ]
  end

  def application() do
    []
  end

  defp deps() do
    [
      {:decimal, "~> 1.0"},
      {:ex_doc, "~> 0.14", only: :dev},
    ]
  end

  defp description() do
    "A few sentences (a paragraph) describing the project."
  end

  defp project() do
    [
      # This option is only needed when you don't want to use the OTP application name
      name: "postgrex",
      # These are the default files included in the project
      files: ~w(lib priv .formatter.exs mix.exs README* readme* LICENSE*
                license* CHANGELOG* changelog* src),
      licenses: ["Apache 2.0"],
      links: %{"GitHub" => "https://github.com/elixir-ecto/postgrex"}
    ]
  end
end
```

### Submitting the project

After the project metadata and dependencies have been added to `mix.exs`, we are ready to publish the project with the `mix apxr_io.publish` command:

```nohighlight
$ mix apxr_io.publish
Publishing postgrex v0.4.0
  Dependencies:
    decimal ~> 0.1.0
  Excluded dependencies (not part of the ApxrIo project):
    ex_doc
  Included files:
    lib/postgrex
    lib/postgrex/binary_utils.ex
    lib/postgrex/connection.ex
    lib/postgrex/protocol.ex
    lib/postgrex/records.ex
    lib/postgrex/types.ex
    mix.exs
Proceed? [Yn] Y
Published postgrex v0.4.0
```

Congratulations, you've published your project! It will appear on the [approximatereality.com](https://approximatereality.com/) site and will be available to add as a dependency in other Mix projects.

Please test your project after publishing by adding it as dependency to a Mix project and fetching and compiling it. If there are any issues, you can publish the project again for up to one hour after first publication. A publication can also be reverted with `mix apxr_io.publish --revert VERSION`.

When running the command to publish a project, ApxrIo will create a tar file of all the files and directories listed in the `:files` property. When the tarball has been pushed to the ApxrIo servers, it will be uploaded to a CDN for fast and reliable access for users. ApxrIo will also recompile the registry file that all clients will update automatically when fetching dependencies.
