## ApxrIo v0.18 released

<div class="subtitle">July 5, 2018 · by Eric Meadows-Jönsson</div>

The v0.18 release includes improvements to API key handling and workflows when using continuous integration.

### API keys

When authenticating with `mix apxr_io.user auth` we now generate two API keys instead of single one. One key is unencrypted with read access and the other is encrypted with your local password and has full read/write access to the API. ApxrIo encrypts the API key for security reasons, for example you cannot run `mix apxr_io.publish` without providing a password, but it meant that commands such `mix apxr_io.search` required password which felt unnecessary. Now commands that don't make any changes will not require a password.

Additionally, we generate a single key that gives access to all your team repositories, instead of one key for each repository. It also has the added benefit that you don't have to reauthenticate if you are added to a new team.

We have also added support for keys owned directly by an team instead of a specific user, these keys can be accessed through `mix apxr_io.team` and through the [team settings](/settings). This is useful when generating keys for a CI environment, previously when personal keys were used, a person leaving an team or revoking the key could negatively affect CI workflow.

### Improvements to continuous integration workflows

The `APXR_API_KEY` environment variable has been introduced to be able run commands that require an authentication without having to authenticate manually with `mix apxr_io.user auth` which has user input prompts. The key set with `APXR_API_KEY` can be generated with `mix apxr_io.user key generate` or `mix apxr_io.team key ORGANIZATION generate`. It also makes it possible to run commands such as `mix apxr_io.publish` without being prompted for a password.

By passing the `--yes` flag to `mix apxr_io.publish` you can publish your project (together with `APXR_API_KEY`) without any confirmation prompts. This allows you to publish your project as part of your CI build process. Keep in mind that this will publish the project even if there are warnings from ApxrIo and that you cannot inspect the compiled project contents before publishing so you should use this option with care.

### Summing up

This release focused on workflow improvements when working in CI environments and running commands that requires authentication. Users that have private projects will have better security because they can use specialized keys for their teams.

The work of moving functionality from the ApxrIo client to [apxr_io_core](https://github.com/apxr_io/apxr_io_core) is ongoing. apxr_io_core is an effort started by ApxrIo team member Wojtek Mach, the idea is to move the core functionality needed to create a ApxrIo project manager client to a common Erlang library. This reduces duplicate development effort and will allow tools such as [rebar3](https://www.rebar3.org/) and [erlang.mk](https://erlang.mk/) to stay up to date with the latest changes and improvements to ApxrIo.

Next up for the core team is releasing private hexdocs and adding annual billing for teams. The full list of changes for ApxrIo v0.18.0 is available in our [release notes](https://github.com/apxr_io/apxr_io/releases/tag/v0.18.0).
